IR Method Section (#102)
MrLongbottom/P9-Rapport: sections/method/method.tex

For our case, terms are the words left in the documents after the preprocessing phase.
For each term in the query $t \in q$, a tf-idf score will be calculated for each document in the corpus $d \in D$.
Thus each document will have one score for each term in he query.

Term frequency describes how often a word is used in the specific document that is being evaluated.
Inverse Document Frequency describes how many documents in the corpus includes the given term, with a higher percentage of documents producing a lower value.
The overall goal of \gls{tf-idf}, can be summarized as a measure of how often used and unique a term is for a given document. Words that are often used in the given document, but rarely used in the corpus will have the highest \gls{tf-idf} scores.

The formula for \gls{tf-idf} can be seen in \autoref{eq:tfidf}
\begin{equation}\label{eq:tfidf}
	\text{tf-idf}(w, d, D) = \text{tf}(w, d) \cdot \text{idf}(w, D)
\end{equation}
where tf$(t, d)$ is the number of times term $t$ is in document $d$ and idf$(t, D)$ is the inverse document frequency of $t$ in $D$.

> \subsection{\acrlong{bm25}}

Author: ```suggestion
\subsection{\acrlong{bm25}}
\todo[inline]{describe goal / purpose / idea}
```

\section{\gls{ir} Methods}\label{sec:ir_methods}

> In this section we will be introducing the \gls{ir} methods that we will be testing.

Author: altså vi har vel ikke tested dem endnu på nuværende tidspunkt i paperet eller hva?

> In this section we will be introducing the \gls{ir} methods that we will be testing.

Author: ```suggestion
In this section, we introduce the \gls{ir} methods that we will be testing.
```

We have chosen these methods to evaluate different ways of performing a \acrfull{ir} task.

The goal of each method is to produce a document-score vector with one score for each document in the corpus, indicating the relevance of the document compared to the query.
These scores can then be sorted in descending order to produce a ranking of the documents.

Some of the methods calculate scores for a single word at a time rather than a whole query.
In that case, we treat their score is an estimate of the probability a document $d$ generating a specific word $w$.
To find the probability of $d$ generating a given query $q$, we take the product of the word probabilities for each word in the query $w \in q$, as the document would have to generate each word, as shown in \autoref{eq:query_prob}.

\begin{equation}\label{eq:query_prob}
	P(q|d) = \prod_{w \in q} P(w|d)
\end{equation}

\input{sections/method/topic_modelling}
\input{sections/language_model}
\input{sections/method/PageRank.tex}

\subsection{\acrlong{tf-idf}}

> \Gls{tf-idf} is a well known \gls{ir} method which is used to find the most important words within text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\Gls{tf-idf} is a well known \gls{ir} method that is used to find the most important words within texts.
```

> As the name suggests, this methods aims to balance the two measures: term frequency and inverse document frequency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the name suggests, this method aims to balance the two measures: term frequency and inverse document frequency.
```

> For our case, terms are the words left in the documents after the preprocessing phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case, terms are the words left in the documents after the preprocessing phase.
```

> For each term in the query $t \in q$, a tf-idf score will be calculated for each document in the corpus $d \in D$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each term in the query $t \in q$, a \gls{tf-idf} score will be calculated for each document in the corpus $d \in D$.
```

> Thus each document will have one score for each term in he query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus each document will have one score for each term in the query.
```

Reviewer: which are then multiplied together using equation bla bla

Author: er din kommentar noget du også vil have med?

Author: ```suggestion
Thus each document will have one score for each term in the query.
These scores are combined into one score each document using \ref{eq:query_prob}.
```

> Term frequency describes how often a word is used in the specific document that is being evaluated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Term frequency describes how often a word is used within a specific document.
```

> Inverse Document Frequency describes how many documents in the corpus includes the given term, with a higher percentage of documents producing a lower value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inverse document frequency describes how many documents in the corpus includes the given term.
The IDF value decreases the more widely used the given term is.
```

> The overall goal of \gls{tf-idf}, can be summarized as a measure of how often used and unique a term is for a given document. Words that are often used in the given document, but rarely used in the corpus will have the highest \gls{tf-idf} scores.

Author: ```suggestion
The overall goal of \gls{tf-idf}, is giving a measure of how often used and unique a term is for a given document. Words that are often used in the given document, but rarely used in the corpus will have the highest \gls{tf-idf} scores.
```

> The overall goal of \gls{tf-idf}, can be summarized as a measure of how often used and unique a term is for a given document. Words that are often used in the given document, but rarely used in the corpus will have the highest \gls{tf-idf} scores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overall goal of \gls{tf-idf}, can be summarized as a measure of how often used and unique a term is for a given document. 
Words that are often used in the given document, but rarely used in the corpus will have the highest \gls{tf-idf} scores.
```

The formula for \gls{tf-idf} can be seen in \autoref{eq:tfidf}
\begin{equation}\label{eq:tfidf}
	\text{tf-idf}(w, d, D) = \text{tf}(w, d) \cdot \text{idf}(w, D)
\end{equation}
where tf$(t, d)$ is the number of times term $t$ is in document $d$ and idf$(t, D)$ is the inverse document frequency of $t$ in $D$.

\subsection{\acrlong{bm25}}
\todo[inline]{describe goal / purpose / idea}
\gls{bm25} is a bag of words retrieval function, which is similar to \gls{tf-idf}, since it uses the inverse document frequency.
The formula for \gls{bm25} can be seen in \autoref{eq:bm25}\cite{bm25}.
\begin{equation}\label{eq:bm25}
	\text{bm25}(d, q) = \sum_{i=1}^{n}\text{idf}(q_i) \cdot \frac{\text{tf}(q_i, d) \cdot (k_1 + 1)}{\text{tf}(q_i, d) + k_1 \cdot (1 - b + b \cdot \frac{|d|}{avgdl})}
\end{equation}
where tf$(q_i)$ is the number of times the term $q_i$ appears in $d$.
$|d|$ is the number of words in d. 
$avgdl$ is the average document length from the corpus.
$b$ and $k_1$ are both hyperparameters, which are set to $0.75$ and $1.5$, respectively.

\subsection{Combining \gls{ir} Methods}

> Each of the \gls{ir} methods described in this section has their own strengths and weaknesses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of the \gls{ir} methods, described in this section, has its own strengths and weaknesses.
```

> We combine multiple of these methods, to see if they are able to draw upon each others strengths and cover each others weaknesses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We combine multiple of these methods, to see if they can draw upon each other's strengths and cover each other's weaknesses.
```

> We do with the hope of a combination of methods being able to produce better results than each of the methods separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hypothesize that one of the combinations is being able to produce better results than each of the methods separately.
```

Author: ```suggestion
We hypothesize that combinations will be able to produce better results than each of the methods separately.
```

> As with \citet{yang2009topic}, we combine multiple \gls{ir} methods together, by normalizing their document-score vectors and then either summing or multiplying them together element-wise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As \citet{yang2009topic}, we combine multiple \gls{ir} methods, by normalizing their document-score vectors and then either summing or multiplying them together element-wise.
```

Author: meh, syntes det lyder bedre med det ord, men det er nok bare en smags sag.

Reviewer: hvad for et ord?

Author: begge umildbart

Author: ```suggestion
As with \citet{yang2009topic}, we combine multiple \gls{ir} methods, by normalizing their document-score vectors and then either summing or multiplying them together element-wise.
```

> This process is visualized in \ref{fig:combine}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process of adding is visualized in \ref{fig:combine} and it is semantically equivalent to multiplication.
```

Author: semantically equvilent ville betyde at de gør præcis det samme. derved siger du at summere er det samme som at multiplikere. Ikke at det gøres på samme måde, men at de er det samme.
det er ihvertfald sådan jeg læse det.

\input{figures/overview_figure.tex}

> Both of these two options are viable, and have their own benefits and drawbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both of these options are viable and have their own benefits and drawbacks.
```

Summation allows documents to be ranked fairly high even if one of the combined methods produce a low score.

> With multiplication a document with average scores for each method can have a better rank than one with mostly good scores but a really low score from one of the combined \gls{ir} methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With multiplication, a document with average scores for each method can have a better rank than one with mostly good scores but a really low score from one of the combined \gls{ir} methods.
```

\section{\gls{ir} Methods}\label{sec:ir_methods}

In this section, we introduce the \gls{ir} methods that we will be testing.

> We have chosen these methods to evaluate different ways of performing a \acrfull{ir} task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have chosen these methods to evaluate different ways of performing an \acrfull{ir} task.
```

The goal of each method is to produce a document-score vector with one score for each document in the corpus, indicating the relevance of the document compared to the query.
These scores can then be sorted in descending order to produce a ranking of the documents.

Some of the methods calculate scores for a single word at a time rather than a whole query.

> In that case, we treat their score is an estimate of the probability a document $d$ generating a specific word $w$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In that case, we treat their score as an estimate of the probability that a document $d$ generates a specific word $w$.
```

To find the probability of $d$ generating a given query $q$, we take the product of the word probabilities for each word in the query $w \in q$, as the document would have to generate each word, as shown in \autoref{eq:query_prob}.

\begin{equation}\label{eq:query_prob}
	P(q|d) = \prod_{w \in q} P(w|d)
\end{equation}

\input{sections/method/topic_modelling}
\input{sections/language_model}
\input{sections/method/PageRank.tex}

\subsection{\acrlong{tf-idf}}

> \Gls{tf-idf} is a well known \gls{ir} method that is used to find the most important words within texts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\acrfull{tf-idf} is a well known \gls{ir} method that is used to find the most important words within texts.
```
tf-idf får ikke stort startbogstav

As the name suggests, this method aims to balance the two measures: term frequency and inverse document frequency.
In our case, terms are the words left in the documents after the preprocessing phase.
For each term in the query $t \in q$, a \gls{tf-idf} score will be calculated for each document in the corpus $d \in D$.
Thus each document will have one score for each term in the query.

> These scores are combined into one score each document using \ref{eq:query_prob}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These scores are combined into one score for each document using \autoref{eq:query_prob}.
```

\subsection{\acrlong{bm25}}
\todo[inline]{describe goal / purpose / idea}
\gls{bm25} is a bag of words retrieval function, which is similar to \gls{tf-idf}, since it uses the inverse document frequency.
The formula for \gls{bm25} can be seen in \autoref{eq:bm25}\cite{bm25}.
\begin{equation}\label{eq:bm25}
	\text{bm25}(d, q) = \sum_{i=1}^{n}\text{idf}(q_i) \cdot \frac{\text{tf}(q_i, d) \cdot (k_1 + 1)}{\text{tf}(q_i, d) + k_1 \cdot (1 - b + b \cdot \frac{|d|}{avgdl})}
\end{equation}
where tf$(q_i)$ is the number of times the term $q_i$ appears in $d$.
$|d|$ is the number of words in d. 
$avgdl$ is the average document length from the corpus.
$b$ and $k_1$ are both hyperparameters, which are set to $0.75$ and $1.5$, respectively.

\subsection{Combining \gls{ir} Methods}
Each of the \gls{ir} methods, described in this section, has its own strengths and weaknesses.
We combine multiple of these methods, to see if they can draw upon each other's strengths and cover each other's weaknesses.
We hypothesize that combinations will be able to produce better results than each of the methods separately.

> As with \citet{yang2009topic}, we combine multiple \gls{ir} methods, by normalizing their document-score vectors and then either summing or multiplying them together element-wise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As with \citet{yang2009topic}, we combine multiple \gls{ir} methods by normalizing their document-score vectors and then either summing or multiplying them together element-wise.
```

> This process is visualized in \ref{fig:combine}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This process is visualized in \autoref{fig:combine}.
```
